I have made a covenant with my eyes why
then should I look upon a young woman
for what is the allotment of God from
above and the inheritance of the
Almighty from on high is it not
destruction for the wicked and disaster
for the workers of iniquity does he not
see my ways and count all my steps if I
have walked with falsehood or if my foot
is hastened to deceit let me be weighed
on honest scales that God may know my
integrity if my step is turned from the
way or my heart walked after my eyes or
if any spot adheres to my hands then let
me sew and another eat yes but my
harvest be rooted out if my heart has
been enticed by a woman or if I have
lurked at my neighbor's door then that
my wife grind for another and let others
bow down over her for that would be
wickedness ears it would be iniquity
deserving of judgment for that would be
a fire that consumes to destruction and
would root out all my increase if I have
despised the cause of my male or female
servant when they complained against me
what then shall I do when God rises up
when he punishes me how shall I answer
him
did not he who made me in the womb make
them did not the same one fashioned us
in the womb if I have kept the poor from
their desire or caused the eyes of the
widow to fail or eaten my morsel by
myself so that the fatherless could not
eat of it but from my youth i reared him
as a father and from my mother's womb I
got it the widow
if I have seen anyone perish for lack of
clothing or any poor man without
covering if his heart has not blessed me
and if he was not warmed with the fleece
of my sheep if I have raised my hand
against the fatherless when I saw I had
help in the gate then let my arm fall
from my shoulder that my arm be torn
from the circuit for destruction from
God is a terror to me and because of his
magnificence
I cannot endure if I have made gold my
hope or said to find gold
you are my confidence if I have rejoiced
because my wealth was great and because
my hand had gained much if I have
observed the Sun when it shines or the
moon moving in brightness so that my
heart has been secretly enticed and my
mouth has kissed my hand this also would
be an iniquity deserving of judgment but
I would have denied God who is above if
I have been choiced at the destruction
of him who hated me or lifted myself up
when evil found him indeed I have not
allowed my mouse to sin by asking for a
curse on his soul if the men of my tent
have not said who is there that has not
been satisfied with his meat but no
Sojourner had to lodge in the street but
I have opened my doors to the traveler
if I have covered my transgressions as
Adam by hiding my iniquity and my bosom
because I feared the great multitude and
dreaded the contempt of families so that
that kept silence and did not go out of
the door oh that I had one day
here is my mark oh that the Almighty
would answer me that my prosecutor had
written a book surely I would carry it
on my shoulder and bind it on me like a
crown
I would declare to him the number of my
steps like a prince I would approach him
if my land cries out against me and its
furrows weep together if I have eaten
its fruit without money or caused its
owners to lose their lives then let
thistles grow instead of wheat and weeds
instead of barley the words of Job are
ended